[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: So what I'd like to do
now is I'd like to cover a couple small
concepts.
One is a subject.
Has any of you ever heard
of a subject before?
Well let's say you wanna fire an event
when somebody calls a method.
Let's say you wanna create an observable
that fires every single time somebody
calls a method on a class for example.
Because that can sometimes be useful.
Let's say you create an object
in JavaScript with a function.
And every single time somebody calls
that function you want an observable
that fires because you might want
to do something asynchronous.
Well, there's no real way to do that.
We don't have to adapt a an event,
a DOM event, to an observable.
We know how to adapt a call it
typical callback API to an observable.
But what if you had an object and
you wanted to create your
own custom event, right?
Such that, when somebody calls a method or
does something, that event fires.
Now you could use addEventListener() or
you could expose addEventListener() or
removeEventListener().
But you can also use a subject.
Let me show you a subject
in just a moment here.
And we are going to be implementing
observable from the ground up.
So as I do this, we're going to sort
of learn what's going on into the hood.
It's not that the interesting thing
is the magic to make all of this
stuff happen is really not that much code.
So all the stuff that you've been seeing
happen take until concatALL, map, filter.
There's a surprisingly
little amount of code here.
And that really comes down to what this
is it's not about writing a lot of code.
It's about thinking differently
about events and that's what's gonna
cause you to be successful when you
take on asynchronous programming
just thinking differently.
Having a little twist on the way
that you already think about events.
So let's start by defining
the observable type, so to speak,
the observable constructor.
Now remember observable only
has one method called forEach.
So that's actually something that I'm
just gonna except as a constructor.
And I'm just gonna add it as
a private member on the observable.
Now remember that observable allows you to
call forEach in a whole bunch of different
ways, right?
You can either pass in an observer
object with an onNext and onError, or
onCompleted.
Or you can just pass in three function
arguments one after the other.
So we'd like to support the same thing.
>> Jafar Husain: So
if the typeof the first argument,
the first function argument,
>> Jafar Husain: Is a function,
we'll know that they're passing in
functions instead of an observer object.
So now I'm just gonna
call the stop forEach.
>> Jafar Husain: Actually I can make
this a little more readable still.
Remember the three handlers that
get passed into an observable.
>> Jafar Husain: All right,
so if onNext is a function,
there's only two possibilities here.
That the very first argument is that
object with the three onNext, onError and
onCompleted properties or
they're passing in functions.
So they're passing in the onNext function,
the onError function, and
the onCompleted function.
So we're just gonna check to see if
the very first parameters of function.
In which case we are gonna build
the observer object ourselves out of
the functions that they pass in.
>> Jafar Husain: Now remember
onError is optional.
And so if it's not passed in, we're just
gonna define an empty function for it.
So that when we work with an observer,
it's always got,
>> Jafar Husain: A function for
onError and onCompleted.
Even if that that function does nothing.
Does everybody understand
what this code does?
I just wanna clarify to make sure
it understand what's going on here.
What if this code effectively does it
says if onError is null substitute it for
this empty function right here and
the same thing on the next line.
If onCompleted is null, we'll
substitute it for this empty function.
So that's one possibility.
The one possibility is that they're
passing in three functions.
The other possibilities are actually
passing in as an observer object in which
we don't have anything to do.
We're just going to forward on I
forget my return statement here.
>> Jafar Husain: We're just gonna forward
on the call to our private forEach
implementation.
And we're gonna pass in onNext,
which in this case is an observer.
>> Jafar Husain: All right, so those are
the two ways you can call an observable.
You can call an observable this way,
>> Jafar Husain: Same by passing in three
functions or
you can call an observable this way.
>> Jafar Husain: Right, and
so we wanna support both and
that's all this public
forEach function does.
It just make sure that we support both.
So if somebody passes in
an observer object right here.
We just use it and pass it to our
internal definition of forEach.
And if somebody passes a just
three functions, one of the other.
We construct an observer object with the
onNext, onError, and onCompleted method.
And then we pass of that to
the internal definition forEach.
So when you create an observable, right?
We're going to do it like this.
We're just going to go new Observable.
And remember, what's the only function
that's defined on observable?
The only function you have to
define to define an observable?
>> Speaker 2: forEach.
>> Jafar Husain: forEach.
So that's the only thing we have to
pass into the observable constructor
in order to create an observable.
So we actually just have to pass in
an inline definition of forEach.
>> Jafar Husain: So
let's create a function which will fire.
Actually, let's create,
remember our fromEvent function?
Let's create the fromEvent function, so
that we can work with Dom events and
can turn them into observables.
So I'm gonna create a fromEvent
function on observable.
>> Jafar Husain: And remember,
it takes a DOM element and
event name,
>> Jafar Husain: And
it returns an observable.
>> Jafar Husain: Make this
a little bit smaller.
>> Jafar Husain: Now let's go through
how do we take an event-based API and
convert it into an observable?
Well, when somebody calls
the forEach function,
we want to add an event
listener to the DOM.
Actually, first,
we're gonna create a handler.
And when that handler fires, we're going
to take the event object and we are going
to just call observer onNext and thread
that event object on to the observer.
Remember, the observable is just an object
with a function, a forEach function.
And when you handed an observer, it's
gonna call that observer every single time
it receives an event from the DOM object.
So now we just have to take the Dom
element, add an event listener.
>> Jafar Husain: At the eventName,
we're gonna add our handler.
And what's the last thing
that we have to do?
What's the last thing a forEach
function has to do when you call it?
What does it have to return?
>> Jafar Husain: When you
call forEach on an array?
>> Speaker 3: Subscription.
>> Jafar Husain: Subscription, right,
because you need a way
to say no more data.
So we're gonna return an object with
dispose,
>> Jafar Husain: And inside of here,
we have to make sure by doing something
that none of the observers onNext or
onerror, or onCompleted callbacks
are ever gonna get called again.
So I'm going to unhook the event handler,
>> Jafar Husain: Like so.
And so this is our subscription object.
>> Jafar Husain: So
this is actually all the code.
Yeah, we've got a question in the back?
>> Speaker 4: So why are we doing the one
up there to the observable prototype, but
this one we're just doing to observable?
>> Jafar Husain: So, just,
let's take a close look at
the observable constructor again.
Notice that observable accepts an argument
which is the definition of forEach, right?
But notice that you can also call,
we saw there's two different
ways you can call an observable.
One is where you pass three
arguments which are functions.
You pass in the onNext, the onError, and
the onCompleted function
is three arguments.
But another overload is that you can
call with an object that has an onNext,
onError, and onCompleted property.
Instead, whenever you would
create an observable,
instead of you having to worry about
handling each of those cases, right?
Because otherwise you'd have to really
kind of you need to make sure to check
each time something called your for
each function if they were passing
an observer object or three-call box?
We're gonna add a public forEach method
to observable that does that work for us.
So it's gonna first check to see,
are they passing in functions?
In which case, onNet, and on air and
onCompleted are all gonna
be individually functions.
And then if so,
it's gonna create an observer object.
It's gonna wrap those things
inside of an observer object and
it's gonna call the actual definition of
forEach that we passed in the constructor.
So that way, when we create an observable,
we don't have to worry about this little
step of saying,
are they passing in an observer?
Are they passing in three callbacks?
Because when we have a public
forEach method that gets called and
then it creates an observer
every single time.
And then calls our internal
definition of forEach.
So inside, when we define an observable,
we only have to worry about
the case where we get an observer.
Does that make sense?
So that's all that's going on here.
It's just saying, hey is,
are they passing an observer object?
In which case, just go ahead take
whatever it is the first argument in this
thread it down to the internal
definition of foreach.
Or are they passing in functions in which
case create the observer object and
then pass that in for it.
So now would we define for each method.
The only case we ever have to worry
about is getting an observer.
Okay, so now when I go and
that define fromEvent and
I create an observable
when you call fromEvent.
I only have to worry about
ever getting an observer.
Does that makes sense?
Whenever we create an observer when
something calls forEach on us,
we've got two jobs.
Our job is to start whatever async or
whatever action may cause asynchronous
data to start flowing through and
to return a subscription object.
Which when disposed of, will stop any
asynchronous data from flowing through.
So here's step one and
here's step two, right?
This will cause us to potentially
start getting messages from the event.
But when somebody disposes
of the subscription object,
when the caller of forEach, this was
of the script subscription object.
We'll make sure that we never give them
any more data ever again because we'll
have removed the event list.
Okay, we're good?